README.md, before:

# Plainly

A minimalist mobile app that explains important world events in three clear layers, without urgency or sensationalism.

## Features

- **Email Magic Link Authentication** - No passwords needed
- **Lightweight Onboarding** - Country, career, interests, risk tolerance
- **One Event at a Time** - No feeds, no infinite scroll
- **Personalized Content** - Events tailored to your profile
- **Calm, Neutral Tone** - No urgency, no sensationalism
- **Event Expiration** - Events expire after being read or after a set time

## Tech Stack

- **React Native** with Expo
- **TypeScript**
- **Supabase** (Backend & Auth)
- **React Navigation**
- **React Native StyleSheet** (styling)

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or later)
- npm or yarn
- Expo CLI (`npm install -g expo-cli`)
- Supabase account

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Set Up Supabase

1. Create a new project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Go to SQL Editor and run the schema from `database/schema.sql`
3. Get your project URL and anon key from Settings > API
4. Update `app.json` with your Supabase credentials:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "extra": {
      "supabaseUrl": "https://your-project.supabase.co",
      "supabaseAnonKey": "your-anon-key"
    }
  }
}
```

### 4. Configure Email Authentication

In your Supabase dashboard:
1. Go to Authentication > URL Configuration
2. Add your redirect URL: `plainly://auth/callback`
3. Configure email templates (optional)

### 5. Run the App

```bash
# Start Expo development server
npm start

# Run on iOS
npm run ios

# Run on Android
npm run android

# Run on Web
npm run web
```

## Project Structure

```
├── App.tsx                 # Main app entry point with navigation
├── components/             # Reusable UI components
│   ├── Button.tsx
│   └── TextInput.tsx
├── screens/               # Screen components
│   ├── AuthScreen.tsx     # Email magic link login
│   ├── OnboardingScreen.tsx # User setup flow
│   ├── EventScreen.tsx    # Main event display
│   └── AdminScreen.tsx   # Manual event creation
├── services/              # Business logic
│   ├── authService.ts     # Authentication
│   └── eventService.ts    # Event management
├── config/                # Configuration
│   └── supabase.ts        # Supabase client
├── types/                 # TypeScript types
│   └── index.ts
├── utils/                 # Utility functions
│   └── personalization.ts # Event personalization logic
└── database/              # Database schema
    └── schema.sql
```

## Database Schema

### Tables

- **user_profiles** - User preferences and onboarding data
- **events** - World events with four sections
- **user_event_reads** - Tracks which events users have read

### Key Features

- Row Level Security (RLS) enabled
- Automatic email sync from auth.users
- Event expiration tracking
- Read status tracking

## Development Notes

### Design Principles

- **Calm & Minimal** - Large text, generous spacing, no urgency
- **Conditional Language** - Use "may", "could", "unlikely" instead of definitive statements
- **No Emojis** - Clean, professional content
- **Intelligent Reader** - Assume users are smart but anxious

### Personalization Logic

The `personalizeEvent` function in `utils/personalization.ts`:
- Adds career-specific context when relevant
- Includes country-based implications
- References user interests
- Adjusts tone based on risk tolerance
- Ensures all statements are conditional

### Event Structure

Each event contains:
1. **What happened** - Factual summary
2. **Why people care** - Context
3. **What this might mean for you** - Personalized, cautious implications
4. **What likely does not change** - Optional fourth section

## Admin Features

The Admin screen allows manual event creation. To access:
1. Navigate to Admin screen (add navigation button if needed)
2. Fill in all required fields
3. Set expiration date (default: 7 days)
4. Event will be personalized automatically for each user

## Future Enhancements (Not in MVP)

- Event archive
- Save for later
- Push notifications (opt-in)
- Comments/sharing
- Real-time alerts
- Predictions

## License

Private project - All rights reserved

Commit message:

Update README and configuration files to transition from app.json to environment variables for Supabase and Groq API keys. Enhance error messages in authService and aiExtractionService for clarity on configuration requirements. Add .env file to .gitignore to prevent sensitive data exposure.

README.md, after:

# Plainly

A minimalist mobile app that explains important world events in three clear layers, without urgency or sensationalism.

## Features

- **Email Magic Link Authentication** - No passwords needed
- **Lightweight Onboarding** - Country, career, interests, risk tolerance
- **One Event at a Time** - No feeds, no infinite scroll
- **Personalized Content** - Events tailored to your profile
- **Calm, Neutral Tone** - No urgency, no sensationalism
- **Event Expiration** - Events expire after being read or after a set time

## Tech Stack

- **React Native** with Expo
- **TypeScript**
- **Supabase** (Backend & Auth)
- **React Navigation**
- **React Native StyleSheet** (styling)

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or later)
- npm or yarn
- Expo CLI (`npm install -g expo-cli`)
- Supabase account

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Set Up Environment Variables

1. Create a new project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Go to SQL Editor and run the schema from `database/schema.sql`
3. Get your project URL and anon key from Settings > API
4. Get your Groq API key from [console.groq.com](https://console.groq.com)
5. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
6. Update `.env` with your actual credentials:
   ```bash
   EXPO_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
   EXPO_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
   EXPO_PUBLIC_GROQ_API_KEY=your-groq-api-key
   ```

**Note:** The `.env` file is gitignored and will not be committed. Never commit API keys or secrets to version control.

### 4. Configure Email Authentication

In your Supabase dashboard:
1. Go to Authentication > URL Configuration
2. Add your redirect URL: `plainly://auth/callback`
3. Configure email templates (optional)

### 5. Run the App

```bash
# Start Expo development server
npm start

# Run on iOS
npm run ios

# Run on Android
npm run android

# Run on Web
npm run web
```

## Project Structure

```
├── App.tsx                 # Main app entry point with navigation
├── components/             # Reusable UI components
│   ├── Button.tsx
│   └── TextInput.tsx
├── screens/               # Screen components
│   ├── AuthScreen.tsx     # Email magic link login
│   ├── OnboardingScreen.tsx # User setup flow
│   ├── EventScreen.tsx    # Main event display
│   └── AdminScreen.tsx   # Manual event creation
├── services/              # Business logic
│   ├── authService.ts     # Authentication
│   └── eventService.ts    # Event management
├── config/                # Configuration
│   └── supabase.ts        # Supabase client
├── types/                 # TypeScript types
│   └── index.ts
├── utils/                 # Utility functions
│   └── personalization.ts # Event personalization logic
└── database/              # Database schema
    └── schema.sql
```

## Database Schema

### Tables

- **user_profiles** - User preferences and onboarding data
- **events** - World events with four sections
- **user_event_reads** - Tracks which events users have read

### Key Features

- Row Level Security (RLS) enabled
- Automatic email sync from auth.users
- Event expiration tracking
- Read status tracking

## Development Notes

### Design Principles

- **Calm & Minimal** - Large text, generous spacing, no urgency
- **Conditional Language** - Use "may", "could", "unlikely" instead of definitive statements
- **No Emojis** - Clean, professional content
- **Intelligent Reader** - Assume users are smart but anxious

### Personalization Logic

The `personalizeEvent` function in `utils/personalization.ts`:
- Adds career-specific context when relevant
- Includes country-based implications
- References user interests
- Adjusts tone based on risk tolerance
- Ensures all statements are conditional

### Event Structure

Each event contains:
1. **What happened** - Factual summary
2. **Why people care** - Context
3. **What this might mean for you** - Personalized, cautious implications
4. **What likely does not change** - Optional fourth section

## Admin Features

The Admin screen allows manual event creation. To access:
1. Navigate to Admin screen (add navigation button if needed)
2. Fill in all required fields
3. Set expiration date (default: 7 days)
4. Event will be personalized automatically for each user

## Future Enhancements (Not in MVP)

- Event archive
- Save for later
- Push notifications (opt-in)
- Comments/sharing
- Real-time alerts
- Predictions

## License

Private project - All rights reserved
